Add release notes for 3.5.0 (#13051)
docker/docker.github.io: docker-for-mac/release-notes.md

{% include eula.md %}

## Docker Desktop 3.5.0
2021-06-23

[Mac with Intel chip](https://desktop.docker.com/mac/stable/amd64/Docker.dmg?utm_source=docker&utm_medium=webreferral&utm_campaign=docs-driven-download-mac-amd64){: .button .primary-btn}
[Mac with Apple chip](https://desktop.docker.com/mac/stable/arm64/Docker.dmg?utm_source=docker&utm_medium=webreferral&utm_campaign=docs-driven-download-mac-arm64){: .button .primary-btn}

### New

> - Dev Environments

Reviewer: Needs much more description. What are they? What can they do for me?

> - Dev Environments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Dev Environments Preview**: Dev Environments enable you to seamlessly collaborate with your team members without moving between Git branches to get your code onto your team members' machines. When using Dev Environments, you can share your in-progress work with your team members in just one click, and without having to deal with any merge conflicts. For more information and for instructions on how to use Dev Environments, see [Development Environments Preview](../desktop/dev-environments.md).
```

### Upgrades

> - [Compose V2 beta](https://github.com/docker/compose-cli/releases/tag/v2.0.0-beta.4)

Author: This should be [Compose V2]

Reviewer 2: It is Compose V2 beta as per https://docs.docker.com/compose/cli-command/.

> - [Compose V2 beta](https://github.com/docker/compose-cli/releases/tag/v2.0.0-beta.4)

Reviewer 3: Should we not list the changes here, as a sub-list?
I remember Donnie asking about that.

Reviewer 2: It's more than listing the changes. Donnie's asked if we can include how the changes introduced in an upgraded version impact Docker Desktop users. This isn't just for Compose, but for all other upgrades listed in this section. Perhaps we can leave it like this for this release and update it retrospectively

Reviewer: He did. At least anything significant.

Author: There's a change mentioned below that references the compose-cli. I'll put it in a subsection.

- [Kubernetes 1.21.2](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.21.2)

> 

Reviewer 3: Extra blank line 😁

> ### Bug fixes and minor changes

Reviewer 2: Should we also list the Volumes UI update in this section?

Reviewer: Yes, or even in the previous section depending how major it is.

Author: Added a subsection for volume management 😄

> - Fix a bug where Docker fails to start because `/usr/bin` is not on the `PATH`. Fixes [docker/for-mac#5770](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5770)

Reviewer 2: How about "Fixed a bug that caused the Docker to fail during startup as `/usr/bin` was not present on the `PATH`...."?

Reviewer: What Usha said but "when" instead of "as".

> - Allow files to be modified inside a host directory which is a nested mountpoint in a container. Fixes [docker/for-mac#5748](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5748).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Docker Desktop now allows files to be modified inside a host directory which is a nested mountpoint in a container. Fixes [docker/for-mac#5748](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5748).
```

Reviewer: To me, "allows" sounds like we deliberately blocked it before, which we didn't: it was just a bug in 3.4. I would prefer something like "Fixed a bug where files inside a host directory that is a nested mountpoint in a container were prevented from being modified".

- Fixed a bug where a container cannot be started when a file is bind-mounted into a nested mountpoint. Fixes [docker/compose-cli#1795](https://github.com/docker/compose-cli/issues/1795).
- Fixed a settings migration bug which caused Docker Desktop not to find images and containers data after upgrading to 3.4.0. Fixes [docker/for-mac#5754](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5754).

> - Fix link to policy regarding uploaded diagnostics data. Fixes [docker/for-mac#5741](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5741)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fixed a link to the policy that provides details on how Docker handles the uploaded diagnostics data. Fixes [docker/for-mac#5741](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5741)
```

> - Highlight the architecture of the non-native images in the dashboard

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Docker Desktop now highlights the architecture of non-native images in the Docker Dashboard.
```

> - The default Unix domain socket name is `~/.docker/run/docker.sock`. We recommend using the `docker context` called `desktop-linux`. For backwards compatibility `/var/run/docker.sock` is still available.

Reviewer: I don't understand this. /var/run/docker.sock is advertised in thousands of blogs. Are we deprecating it? If so, it's a bigger deal than this release note implies.

And what is this about using a desktop-linux context? When would I need to use it?

Reviewer 3: @djs55 ☝️ ?

Reviewer 4: `/var/run/docker.sock` still works and isn't deprecated. This is just an advertisement for using the CLI context as it will be future-proof.

> - Fix using virtualization.framework on macOS Monterey

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix using virtualization.framework on macOS 12 (Monterey)
```

## Docker Desktop 3.4.0
2021-06-09

[Download for Mac with Intel chip](https://desktop.docker.com/mac/stable/amd64/65384/Docker.dmg)

> [Download for Mac with Apple chip](https://desktop.docker.com/mac/stable/arm64/65384/Docker.dmg)

Reviewer 3: Should these have a UTM?

Reviewer 2: Not required for older releases. There was a discussion with Dieu on this in https://github.com/docker/docker.github.io/pull/12832#discussion_r630192598.

Author: Right, I've added on windows as well.

### Upgrades

- [Compose V2](https://github.com/docker/compose-cli/releases/tag/v2.0.0-beta.4)
- [Kubernetes 1.21.2](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.21.2)

### Bug fixes and minor changes

- Fixed a bug that caused Docker to fail to start because `/usr/bin` was not present on the `PATH`. Fixes [docker/for-mac#5770](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5770)
- Docker Desktop now allows files to be modified inside a host directory which is a nested mountpoint in a container. Fixes [docker/for-mac#5748](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5748).
- Fixed a bug where a container cannot be started when a file is bind-mounted into a nested mountpoint. Fixes [docker/compose-cli#1795](https://github.com/docker/compose-cli/issues/1795).
- Fixed a settings migration bug which caused Docker Desktop not to find images and containers data after upgrading to 3.4.0. Fixes [docker/for-mac#5754](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5754).
- Fixed a link to the policy that provides details on how Docker handles the uploaded diagnostics data. Fixes [docker/for-mac#5741](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5741)

> - Docker Desktop now highlights the architecture of the non-native images in the Docker Dashboard.

Reviewer 5: This only applies to Docker Desktop running on Apple silicon. Should we mention it?

Reviewer: I think it applies universally, eg when running ARM images on Intel DD too. Admittedly it's ARM users who will mostly see it, but I still think we should mention it here.

Author: I've added `on Apple Silicon` at the end of this sentence.

[Mac with Apple chip](https://desktop.docker.com/mac/stable/arm64/Docker.dmg?utm_source=docker&utm_medium=webreferral&utm_campaign=docs-driven-download-mac-arm64){: .button .primary-btn}

### New

**Dev Environments Preview**: Dev Environments enable you to seamlessly collaborate with your team members without moving between Git branches to get your code onto your team members' machines. When using Dev Environments, you can share your in-progress work with your team members in just one click, and without having to deal with any merge conflicts. For more information and for instructions on how to use Dev Environments, see [Development Environments Preview](../desktop/dev-environments.md).

### Upgrades

- [Compose V2 beta](https://github.com/docker/compose-cli/releases/tag/v2.0.0-beta.4)
  - Fixed a bug where a container cannot be started when a file is bind-mounted into a nested mountpoint. Fixes [docker/compose-cli#1795](https://github.com/docker/compose-cli/issues/1795).
  - Added support for container links and external links.

>   - Introduce `docker compose logs --since --until` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Introduced the `docker compose logs --since --until` option.
```

  - `docker compose config --profiles` now lists all defined profiles.
- From [Kubernetes 1.21.1](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.21.1) to [Kubernetes 1.21.2](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.21.2)

### Bug fixes and minor changes
- **Volume Management**
  - Able to remove a file or directory from the Docker Dashboard.

>   - Show more last time modified and size of the contents in the volumes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The **Volumes** view in Docker Dashboard displays the last modified time and the size of the contents inside a volume.
```

>   - The files inside the volume can be saved form the Docker Dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Users can save the files and directories inside a volume from Docker Dashboard.
```

- Fixed a bug that caused Docker to fail to start because `/usr/bin` was not present on the `PATH`. Fixes [docker/for-mac#5770](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5770)
- Docker Desktop now allows files to be modified inside a host directory which is a nested mountpoint in a container. Fixes [docker/for-mac#5748](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5748).
- Fixed a settings migration bug which caused Docker Desktop not to find images and containers data after upgrading to 3.4.0. Fixes [docker/for-mac#5754](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5754).
- Fixed a link to the policy that provides details on how Docker handles the uploaded diagnostics data. Fixes [docker/for-mac#5741](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/5741)
- Docker Desktop now highlights the architecture of the non-native images in the Docker Dashboard on Apple Silicon.
- Fix using virtualization.framework on macOS 12 (Monterey).

> - The default Unix domain socket name is now `~/.docker/run/docker.sock`. For backwards compatibility `/var/run/docker.sock` is still available. We recommend using the `docker context` called `desktop-linux`.

Author: I've rearranged the sentences, does this make a bit more sense @stephen-turner @djs55 ?

Reviewer: The sentence is written more clearly, but I still don't really know what it means. Why did it change? Is the old name planned to be deprecated? When would I use that docker context?

Reviewer 4: I think it depends on whether the reader is a CLI user or a developer of tools using the Docker API.
- If the user is a CLI user: they don't have to do anything but they will observe the default CLI context is now `desktop-linux`.
- If the user is a developer of Docker API tools: they don't have to do anything either, but they should consider supporting the new socket name `~/.docker/run/docker.sock`

Maybe these should be separated
- The default `docker` CLI `context` is now `desktop-linux`.
- The Docker API is now available on `~/.docker/run/docker.sock`.

(Maybe we don't need to actively recommend anything yet. I wonder whether it would be possible / sensible to add `context` support to the common Docker API clients so that any change in future is transparent. I think the clients already support similar conventions like the `DOCKER_HOST` environment variable. I think of the `docker context` as being a more user-friendly alternative to this variable)
